Passive suicidal ideation: Suicidal thoughts desiring one's own death or related states (e.g., disappearing, not waking up). . Examples: I want to die; better off dead; want to be dead; want to die; wish I was dead; wish I wasn't alive; wish I would not wake up; would be better off dead
Active suicidal ideation: Explicit suicidal thoughts of killing oneself; mention of methods, plan, preparations, time, and/or place of suicide attempt. . Examples: jump off the building; hanging myself; electrocuting myself; burn myself alive; set myself on fire; take my own life; kms; jump off the roof; hang myself; kill myself; jump off my balcony; end my own life; hit by the train; I wrote a suicide note; jump from the roof
Types of lethal weapons used by people for self-harm and suicide: Mentions of common types of guns and weapons that can lead to death. Examples: slice my wrist; razor; shoot myself; stabbing myself; drink myself to death; cutting; lethal injection; tried OD; noose; firearm; jump off a bridge; knife to my throat; setting myself on fire; hanging myself; run in front of traffic
Types of self-injury: Mention of actual or desired direct and deliberate destruction by an individual of their own body tissue, including with suicidal intent (suicidal self-injury) our without suicidal intent (non-suicidal self-injury). Examples: NSSI; burn myself; carve my skin; cut myself; cutting my wrists; electrocuting myself; mutilate my; shoot myself; slice my wrist; slit my wrists; slitting my wrists; stab my self; stabbing my self; stabbing myself; wound myself
Suicide exposure and suicide contagion of a loved one or a celebrity: Exposure to suicide can lead to a variety of negative sequelae among both kin and non-kin, including depression and anxiety, as well as increased risk of suicide ideation, attempts, and even death case of family. The increased vulnerability to suicide after exposure to suicide is a particularly concerning phenomenon, sometimes referred to as 'suicide suggestion', 'suicide contagion', or 'suicide diffusion'. It has also resulted in efforts at postvention, essentially suicide prevention focused on loss survivors. Examples: killed herself; killed himself; suicide aftermath
Other suicidal language: Suicidal language that does not belong in the other suicidal categories (active and passive SI, self-injury, and lethal means for suicide). Examples: I deserve to die; I should die; done with my life; done with this life; kill me; life isn't worth living; no one will miss me; no point in living; no reason to live; nothing left to live for; nothing to live for; suicidal intent; suicidal tendencies
Hospitalization: Being hospitalized for a psychiatric condition or acute psychiatric risk.. Examples: psych unit; psych ward; psychiatric unit; psychiatric ward
Lonely and isolated: Loneliness: aversive state experienced when a discrepancy exists between the interpersonal relationships one wishes to have and those that one perceives they currently have. The perception that one's social relationships are not living up to some expectation (Heinrich & Gullone 2006). Isolation: the expression of solitary behavior that results from peer rejection (Rubin & burgess). Related to thwarted belongingness where the person perceives loneliness, isolation, and a failing to meet one's need to belong (Van Orden et al 2010).. Examples: no one to turn to; no one will miss me; nobody thinks about me; nobody wants me here; no friends; no one misses me; I am alone; no one cares; have no one; don't have anyone; feel ignored; have nobody; lonely; no one to talk; no one I can talk to
Social withdrawal: Isolating oneself from others. Examples: I avoid crowds; no social interaction; avoid everyone; hermit; want to be alone; recluse; I keep to myself; misanthropy; wish to be alone; social avoidance; hikikomori; social phobia; want people to leave me alone; reclusive; avoid people
Negative relationship types and processes: Mention of potentially negative relationship types (widow, my ex) and processes (divorce, ghosting). Examples: broke up; ghosted; abusive; enemy; blocked me; unsupportive; betrayal; toxic relatioship; domestic violence; he's toxic; grudge; breakup; sexual abuse; unfaithful; codependent
Types of family, friends, and other key social relationships and kinship: Types of family, friends, and other key social relationships. Examples: mother; half-brother; spouse; husband; godson; marital; companion; aunt; best friend; foster children; teammate; son; bf; daughter; wife
Being bullied: Bullying is defined as intentional, repeated, and harmful aggressive behavior (verbal, physical, social) often with an imbalance of power between the perpetrators and the victims.. Examples: beat me up; call me fat; bullies; bully; calling me names; embarrassed me; makes fun of me; bullied; leak nude; mock me; push me around; harassment; try to make me feel bad; ostracized; make fun of me
Sexual abuse and harassment: Any non-consensual act or behavior of a sexual nature imposed on someone. It can range from unwanted sexual touching and coercion to rape and exploitation. We also include sexual harassment in this lexicon. . Examples: forced into having sex; forced me to touch; forced me to have sex; rough sex; stalking; unwanted sex; rape; not consensual; sex offense; sex trafficking; sexual violence; sexual assault; date rape; groped me; molested me
Physical abuse and physical violence: Physical Abuse: intentional use of force against a person, causing injury, pain, or harm. It includes behaviors like hitting, shaking, burning, or assaulting.
Physical Violence: acts of physical force intended to hurt, damage, or kill someone or something. It's a broader term that can encompass abuse, assault, and other forms of harmful physical contact.. Examples: punched me; strangled me; beating up; child abuse; physical abuse; slapped me; physically attacked; kidnap; assault; stabbing me; choking me; pull my hair; slammed me; hands on me; rough up
Aggressive and irritable: Aggression is behavior intended to harm or intimidate others. It can be physical or verbal, manifesting as threats, assaults, or hostile actions.  Irritability: a proneness to experience negative affective states, such as anger, annoyance, and frustration upon little provocation, and may be outwardly expressed in the form of aggressive behavior. . Examples: hateful; wrath; aggressive; confrontational; hostile; angry; raging; scream; resentment; combative; argumentative; spiteful; rage; irritated; pissed off
Types of alcoholic drinks and alcohol use behavior: Mentions of types of alcohol beverages and related behaviors (drinking), measures (shot), and states (drunk). Examples: urge to drink; brewery; rehab; alateen; bartender; keg; chardonnay; liquor; cocktail; alcohol; beer; budweiser; hangover; hungover; whisky
Types of abused substances and substance use behavior: Mentions of types of abused substances and related behaviors (snort), measures (8 ball), and states (high, buzz). Examples: sedative; barbiturate; alprazolam; Zoloft; vodka; codeine; codone; vaping; THC; nembutal; benzodiazepine; intoxicant; lorazepam; marihuana; escitalopram
Impulsive: A predisposition toward rapid, unplanned reactions to internal or external stimuli without regard to the negative consequences of these reactions to the impulsive individuals or to others. Examples: act on impulses; act without thinking; impulsive; impulsivity; rash decision; reckless; say things without thinking; snap decision; spur of the moment; urge
Defeated and feeling like a failure: The perception of a failed struggle, feelings of powerlessness and a sense of losing social status or missing personal goals. Examples: I feel like a failure; I'm a failure; I'm a loser; am powerless; crushed; defeated; demoralized; feel powerless; humiliated; inferior
Feeling like a burden: Misperceptions of being a burden on close others and is characterized by self-hatred as well as a belief that one is a liability for others (joiner et al 2012). Examples: I annoy others; I make things worse; I'm annoying; be better without me; better off without me; difficult for me to ask for help; feel guilty about others caring for me; sorry for existing
Shame, self-disgust, and worthlessness: Self-disgust: the basic emotion of disgust becomes directed at a core and stable feature of the self (Clarke et al 2019). Shame: the entire self that is painfully scrutinized and negatively evaluated, considering oneself a bad person (Tangney). Worthlessness: often measured through low self esteem (ex Horvath & morf). self criticism: "tendency to ruminate on feelings of inadequacy and personal failure" (Coyne & whiffen) . Examples: not deserving of life; I'm ugly; I'm a freak; I'm a mistake; self-doubt; am fucked up; self-hate; I don't deserve to be here; I'm inadequate; disappointed in myself; mortified; despise myself; I'm disgusting; lack of self-confidence; shame
Guilt: Guilt involves a focus on a specific behavior that is negatively evaluated. Examples: I shouldn't have said that; confession; sorry; guilt; I should have known better; take the blame; I shouldn't have; I wish I hadn't; I'm wrong; regret; I'm to blame; my mistake; I am to blame; wish I could take it back; I take responsibility
Anxiety: Anxiety is a feeling of worry, nervousness, or unease, often about an imminent event or something with an uncertain outcome. We include anxiety disorders.. Examples: Xanax; phobia; apprehension; worry; nervous; xanax; can't relax; diazepam; phobic; anxiety; anxious; worried; Ativan; agoraphobia; social anxiety
Panic, panic attacks, and panic dissociation: Panic attack: An abrupt surge of intense fear or intense discomfort that reaches a peak within minutes and during which time four or more of the following symptoms occur: palpitations, pounding heart, or accelerated heart rate, sweating, trembling or shaking, sensations of shortness of breath or smothering, feeling of choking, chest pain or discomfort, nausea or abdominal distress, feeling dizzy, unsteady, lightheaded, or faint, derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (being detached from oneself), fear of losing control or Ãgoing crazy, fear of dying, paresthesias (numbness or tingling sensation), chills or hot flushes.. Examples: fright; hyperventilating; mental breakdown; nervous breakdown; panic; panic attacks; panic dissociation; terror
Entrapment, trapped, and desire to escape: Entrapment: desire to escape from an unbearable situation tied with the perception that all escape routes are blocked (Gilbert & Allan, 1998). Desire to escape: wish to escape from awareness of current life problems their implications about the self (Baumeister, 1990).. Examples: escape; paralyzing; no escape; want to get out; there is no exit; want to escape; craving release; escape pain; have to escape; running out of options; there is no escape; caged; I want out; snare; entrap
Trauma and post-traumatic stress disorder: Psychological trauma is a type of damage to the mind that occurs as a result of a distressing event. It is often the result of an overwhelming amount of stress that exceeds one's ability to cope or integrate the emotions involved with that experience. Trauma can result from an event, series of events, or set of circumstances that is experienced by an individual as physically or emotionally harmful or life-threatening and that has lasting adverse effects on the individual's functioning and mental, physical, social, emotional, or spiritual well-being. Post-traumatic stress disorder: "an event or events that involve actual or threatened death or serious injury, or a threat to the physical integrity of self and others and the person's response involved intense fear, helplessness, or horror" with a diagnosis including either re-experiencing the traumatic event, avoidance and numbing, and increased arousal.. Examples: C-PTSD; EMDR; PTSD; complex ptsd; post-traumatic stress disorder; ptsd; survivor's guilt; trauma-informed care
Agitated and agitation: Agitation is a state of mental and/or physiological restlessness. It can either be of entirely mental nature and thereby be non-observable from the outside or it can be accompanied by a physiological component that involves aimless behaviors or fidgety movements on a low-grade organizational level like pacing or jittering.. Examples: agitated; agitation
Ruminating: Self-focused thoughts on negative mood and the possible causes and consequences of that mood (Brinker and Dozois). Ruminative flooding: uncontrolled and racing thoughts and somatic symptoms of headache and pressure in the head (Galynker et al, 2017).. Examples: can't stop thinking; chewing over; fixating; fixation; mental loop; overanalyzing; overthinking; overwhelming thoughts; recurring thoughts; ruminating; rumination; stewing in; thinking too much; thoughts flood
Depressed mood: Low mood and sadness that does not go away after a few weeks. Examples: I feel sad all the time; MDD; anhedonia; cried; depression; despair; feel down; feeling down; feeling low; low mood; melancholic; melancholy; sadness; sorrow
Anhedonia and being uninterested: The loss of capacity or failure to experience pleasure (Goldberg et al, 2011). The lack of motivation and apathy.. Examples: I don't enjoy anything; anhedonia; don't enjoy things; don't feel pleasure; emotionally flat; emotionally numb; joyless; lack of motivation; lack of pleasure; no enthusiasm; nothing feels good; nothing is fun; uninspired
Emotional pain: Feelings of mental pain, hurt, anguish, soreness, aching, psychological pain in the mind. Examples: anguish; emotional pain; emotional suffering; emotional trauma; inner pain; mental anguish; mental pain; psychache; psychological pain
Grief and bereavement from the death of a loved one or loss of a relationship: Sadness from losing a loved one (grief) which may result in depressive symptoms (bereavement). This may also include losing a relationship or the health of a loved one. . Examples: my grandfather died; my dad died; my father died; losing him; grief; my grandmother died; funerary; bereaving; put my dog down; widow; mourning; my sister died; passed away; he was murdered; brother died
Lack of meaning or lack of purpose about one's life: One's life lacks meaning, does not make sense, does not have purpose, or is insignificant.. Examples: I'm so lost; existential angst; without purpose; existential dread; no reason to live; don't care about life; life is purposeless; ennui; existential crisis; life is empty; I have no meaning; what's the point of life; life is pointless; nothing makes sense; there's no point to life
Emptiness: The experience of profound hollowness and feelings of absence from one's own life. . Examples: I feel nothing; I feel numb; devoid; don't feel anything; emptiness; empty; feel nothing; hollow; inner void; nothingness; numb; numbness; void
Hopeless: Generalized negative expectations of the future (McMillan 2007). Examples: I don't have a future; beyond help; can't be helped; doomed; futile; futureless; hopeless; hopelessness; it's useless; no end to this; no future; nothing can help; there's no hope
Perfectionism: Self-oriented perfectionism refers to setting high personal standards and experiencing feelings of distress if failing to meet desired standards. Other-oriented perfectionism refers to having high expectations of others. Socially prescribed perfectionism refers to the expectations and beliefs that others expect perfectionism in one's performance.. Examples: I expect a lot; absolute best; be perfect in everything I do; expect nothing less than; hate making mistakes; high standards; overachiever; perfectionism; succeed at everything; unrealistic expectations; workaholic
Fatigue and tired: Fatigue is a state of extreme tiredness and reduced energy, mental or physical, often resulting from exertion, lack of sleep, stress, or illness. It goes beyond normal tiredness. . Examples: sluggish; burnout; burned-out; fatigue; groggy; sleepy; too tired; drowsy; burnt-out; burned out; burnt out; don't have energy; yawn; lethargic; weary
Sleep issues: Sleep issues, also known as sleep disorders, refer to conditions that disrupt normal sleep patterns. These issues can involve problems falling asleep, staying asleep, or experiencing restful sleep. Common examples include insomnia, sleep apnea, restless leg syndrome, and narcolepsy. . Examples: can't sleep; night terrors; not sleeping; sleep disorder; snoring; c-pap; trouble sleeping; insomnia; sleep apnea; hypersomnia; sleep deprived; narcolepsy; sleepless; oversleeping; circadian rhythm disorder
Psychosis and schizophrenia: Psychosis: A mental health condition characterized by a disconnection from reality, often involving hallucinations (seeing or hearing things that aren't there) and delusions (strongly held false beliefs).
Schizophrenia: A chronic and severe mental disorder that affects how a person thinks, feels, and behaves, often marked by symptoms like psychosis (which involves hallucinations, delusions), but also disordered thinking, and impaired social functioning.. Examples: circumstantiality; clang associations; clozapine; alogia; paranoia; logorrhea; psychosis; referential thinking; thought broadcast; I'm god; paranoid; tangentiality; olanzapine; schizophrenia; psychotic
Symptoms and behaviors of mania and bipolar disorder: 
Bipolar disorder is a mental health condition that is marked by significant mood swings, which include periods of intense emotional highs, known as mania or hypomania, and lows, known as depression. During manic phases, individuals may feel overly happy and energetic or irritable, often with a decreased need for sleep and an increase in activity or impulsive behaviors. During depressive phases, individuals may feel sad, indifferent, or hopeless, with a lack of energy and difficulty in enjoying activities they once found pleasurable. . Examples: bipolar; hypomania; hypomanic; lamictal; lamotrigine; lithium; mania; manic; pressured speech; rapid cycling
Borderline personality disorder: Condition characterized by difficulties regulating emotion. This means that people who experience BPD feel emotions intensely and for extended periods of time, and it is harder for them to return to a stable baseline after an emotionally triggering event.
This difficulty can lead to impulsivity, poor self-image, stormy relationships and intense emotional responses to stressors. Struggling with self-regulation can also result in dangerous behaviors such as self-harm (e.g. cutting).. Examples: BPD; borderline personality disorder; bpd; unstable sense of self
Eating disorders and related behaviors: Eating disorders are mental health conditions characterized by unhealthy and obsessive behaviors related to food, eating, and body image. Common types include anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge-eating disorder.. Examples: unhealthy weight; chew and spit; purging; body image; eating disorder; skip meals; binge eating; starvation; worry about weight; pica; anorexia; orthorexia; anorexia nervosa; not eating enough; bulimia
Physical health symptoms and disorders: Physical health issues refer to any condition or disorder that affects the body's normal functioning. These can range from acute illnesses like infections to chronic diseases such as diabetes or heart conditions as well as psychosomatic conditions.  Physical disability: physical impairments, functional limitations, and social activity restrictions stemming from the disability. Examples: hypertension; fracture; stroke; rash; virus; diabetes; erectile dysfunction; bronchitis; allergy; tumor; obesity; somatic; kidney stone; epilepsy; heart attack
Incarceration and related terms: Mentions of incarceration and related terms. Examples: police; forensic; detained; misdemeanor; incarcerated; officer; miranda rights; jail; probation; felony; jailed; criminal justice system; arrested; behind bars; verdict
Poverty and being homeless: Poverty is a state or condition in which a person or community lacks the financial resources and essentials for a minimum standard of living. Poverty means that the basic needs of living, such as food, clothing, and shelter, are not being met.
Homelessness refers specifically to the condition of people without a regular dwelling. Homeless people are often unable to acquire and maintain regular, safe, and adequate housing, or lack "fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence.". Examples: government program; no cash; poverty; financial aid; no savings; soup kitchen; malnutrition; jobless; unhoused; transitional housing; vagrant; low-paid; food bank; homeless; food insecurity
Types of gender and sexual identity: Gender identity refers to an individual's sense of their self as male, female, transgender, non-binary, genderfluid, agender, or something else. Gender identity is distinct from the cultural roles, behaviors, and attributes expected of women and men based on their sex assigned at birth. Sexual identity, also known as sexual orientation, refers to the pattern of romantic or sexual attraction to others. Common sexual identities include: heterosexual, homosexual, bisexual, pansexual, and asexual.. Examples: cisnormativity; women who have sex with women; polysexual; femenine; monosexual; transmasculine; agender; akiosexual; bgltq; gender apathetic; multigender; aromantic; folx; FTM; gender binary
Discrimination based on race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, sex, sexual orientation, disability, and age : Discrimination is the unjust or prejudicial treatment of different categories of people, often based on characteristics like race, age, sex, or disability. It involves actions or attitudes that disadvantage or harm individuals or groups, and can occur in various settings such as the workplace, education, or public services.. Examples: gerontophobia; coon; ghetto; biphobi; hate speech; white trash; make america great again; faggot; Jim Crow; nazi; treated with less respect; gulag; colorism; transphobia; white power
Work relationships and financial problems that someone may worry about: Problems related to managing money, earning a living, employment, or business activities, involving budgeting, spending, and investing.. Examples: severance; finance; welfare; my credit; money; mortgage; layoff; make ends meet; rent; bad credit; currency; overwork; bankrupt; taxes; out of business
Barriers to psychological treatment: Sociodemographic characteristics of the client impacting his or her ability to receive treatment.. Examples: don't want to be hospitalized; can't get my medication; going rate is too high; don't want to be judged; don't need therapy; meds aren't helping; fear of judgment; I talk to friends instead; don't trust psychiatrists; no therapists in my area; haven't be reffered yet; no appointments available; my insurance won't cover; deal with it on my own; don't want to go to the hospital
Forms of commonly pursued pharmacological, psychotherapeutic, and behavioral mental health treatments: Forms of commonly pursued pharmacological, psychotherapeutic, and behavioral mental health treatments. Examples: benzo; transcranial magnetic stimulation; Adderall; PCP; bibliotherapy; hospitalize; dosage; Lexapro; acceptance commitment therapy; biofeedback; psychiatr; escitalopram; peer support; meditation; at the ER